# Identification of Actors in the Photo Collection of the Theatre Museum of Vienna with Deep Learning Image Recognition
The Theatre Museum of Vienna has around 1,600,000 photographs in its archive, mainly displaying actors. Up to now, 113,000 images have been digitised. 20-25% of these photographs are not labelled with their actors’ names. The process of labelling images is currently performed by human historian experts. This task is time-consuming as every single photograph has to be manually viewed and research for identification has to be conducted.
Advancements in the area of deep learning and face recognition in recent years, hold promise to automate the process of labeling images. Face recognitition architectures are proven to achieve high accuracy on constrained inputs, for example passport photos. In unconstrained and diverse environments face recognition achieves usually lower accuracy. The photography collection of the Theatre Museum of Vienna displays actors with strong cross-poses, cross-ages, sometimes with make-up and customes which can partly cover faces. In addition, these historic photographs have been taken using analogue equipment and then scanned for digitisation, leading to lower resolutions. Furthermore, in terms of physical preservation information might be lost as photographs can be damaged, faded or show dust particles. All those factors can reduce the performance of deep learning-based face recognition.
The aim of this bachelor thesis is to test the applicability and measure the accuracy of state of the art Face-Recognition architectures on the musuems’ photography collection. The used Face-Recognition architectures will be pretrained on public datasets. In addition, a GUI will be built, making this technology accessible to experts supporting future labelling work in the Theatre Museum Of Vienna.

—keywords—<br>
*face-recognition face-detection deeplearning actor identification verification theatremuseum vienna imagerecognition project programming gui python historic photograph protrait unconstrained*